---
ID: 824
post_title: Who am I?
author: ashishchowdhury
post_date: 2012-09-01 05:52:27
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  http://www.dedicatedserverhosting.co.in/2012/09/01/who-am-i/
published: true
hide_post_title:
  - default
unlink_post_title:
  - default
hide_post_meta:
  - default
hide_post_date:
  - default
hide_post_image:
  - default
unlink_post_image:
  - default
post_image:
  - >
    http://www.ashishchowdhury.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/who_am_i_cropped.jpg
Views:
  - "4"
wp_review_user_reviews:
  - "0"
wp_review_review_count:
  - "0"
---
<a title="Aristotle" href="http://www.ashishchowdhury.com/aristotle/">Aristotle</a> once said “Knowing yourself is the beginning of all wisdom.”

The first step towards wisdom leads me to the question Who Am I? It is simply the most complicated question in the world.

Let me explore for the possible answers: My name is Ashish Chowdhury, with my name alone nobody can know me, and at the best one can only claim to identify me with this name. Or, if I talk about myself, I cannot know myself with this name alone, so this is obviously not the answer.

Ok, let me start with my body. When I get physically hurt, I may say my hands got injured or when I talk about my body, I say it is my face, it is my leg, it is my foot and so on… so can I call my body to be myself. Absolutely not because if it be so, then whatever I call mine all become myself, say my car, my house, my business and the likes because for them also I say it is my car, it is my house. So I see that I have to be different from my possessions, all my possessions and that there is an owner who is different from the ownership. Therefore my body is only one of my possessions!!

Now me go little deeper to think harder and say "I am the one who does the thinking. I am the mind." And what is the mind? It only consists of all the ideas, thoughts, emotions, desires and memories that arise and vanish in a seamless continuity and gets altered every time I experience something new. When I try to observe my mind I realize that it is nothing else but a stream of thoughts which are constantly changing like the water flowing in a river. And when I do this observing act, I become the observer, thinker, separate from this constantly flowing stream of ideas. So here also I am not my mind.

So I am neither my identity, my body nor my mind, then who am I?

The answer can be found by knowing the knower. This knower is the Conscious Witness, saakshi present within me. It is the inner Light, the energy that enlightens my mental world, and is my life force that enlivens and animates through my body. It cannot be understood objectively, it can only be known experientially. We can experientially know it as “IT IS” but cannot know “WHAT IT IS” But even this realization is a life-transforming experience...

I love learning about myself and discovering who I am. The self-awareness of who I am allows me to know that I am only a part of a big reality and that I have a definite role to play. I have only to realize what that role is what that purpose is. I am a part of the evolutionary process that is always happening. And being a part of the evolution, I only want to get better and better in this life and thereafter...